Prologue Chapter 1 - A Hero is Born

	Lilith couldn’t believe that her father was staging a large heist on her due date. She understood why completely; that was when the Commonwealth’s guards would rotate, so it would be the most advantageous time to raid a few towns. But seriously. Was he actually going to miss the birth of three grandchildren?

	Lilith was ‘lucky’ to be the daughter of Vladimir “the Impaler” Romanov, the greatest crime warlord of the generation. It was incredibly ironic that Vlad had the same surname as the Viking royal family, as their ancestors had severed contact with each other long ago. Their compound, located in the middle of a desert, was littered with expensive chandeliers, various golden trinkets, and thousands of stolen weapons, as well as some state-of-the-art trap technology bought on the black market. Surely, carrying Vlad’s bloodline should carry incredible privileges, right?

In reality, Lilith was probably less safe than any of the compound’s low-ranking brutes. She was constantly envied for her position, yet if anything, she had a harder life than everyone else. She was forced to go on every mission, no matter how sick or tired she was, to learn the tactics of a great assassin, deceptor, and negotiator; apparently, only pregnancy was enough to stop Vlad from sending her headfirst into robberies. Of the two times she tried to go against her father as a child, one was solved with a spiked whip, and the other, a few scorpion stings.

	It was common knowledge that Vlad had no sympathy, not even for his closest allies. He had once poisoned his second-in-command for refusing to pillage a religious festival. How that second-in-command survived was beyond Lilith, since Vlad was notorious for only buying the most painful and deadly poisons. Some thought that Creation decided to perform a miracle on the second-in-command for protecting His worshippers, while others believed he knew the consequences of dissenting Vlad’s orders, and had taken an antidote proactively beforehand. Needless to say, shortly after recovery, he was never seen again at the compound.

	Lilith lay flat on her bed, pondering what the future would hold. She already had one daughter, a two-year-old whom she named ‘Clover’, much to her father’s annoyance. “What kind of desert assassin name is Clover?! What is she going to do, throw pretty little plants and flowers at her victims?! A strong warrior needs a strong name, like my own. Don’t you know that Lilith is an angel of death? I didn’t name you that for no reason!” The memory played back in her head. She knew that she could never disagree with Vlad on anything major, so she took small victories in the things that didn’t really matter. Although her father seemed to put on a major show, she knew he didn’t actually care.

	What he did actually care about, however, was the fact that Lilith had somehow given him a daughter. When he first found out, back when Clover was still in the womb, he had flown into rage, real rage, so furious that Lilith had seen her life flash before her eyes, daggers hovering over her throat. Vlad had wanted a male heir to take over his compound’s operation (apparently women weren’t strong enough, physically or mentally), and thought that Lilith had somehow betrayed him for not giving him a male heir. Indeed no love would, or could, ever be shown in this household. Strict, loveless loyalty was the only path forward.

	With three babies, surely one of them would be male. At least, that’s what Lilith hoped, as she had no idea what wrath she would suffer from if she somehow had four daughters in a row. Death was probably pretty high up on that list. After all, Vlad had brutally murdered his wife for giving birth to Lilith, and then Lilith’s first husband, after he made her give birth to Clover. Lilith’s second husband, the father of her soon-to-be triplets, had also been disposed of, after allegedly bad-mouthing Vlad’s taste in fine china. Lilith didn’t really care, as she hadn’t loved either of them; they were both semi-highranking advisors introduced to her by her father purely for the sake of birthing an heir.

	A doctor wearing a torn coat, probably the same one he’d worn for the past month, slowly shuffled into her room, a makeshift nursery with a stolen hospital bed, stolen crib, and many various medicines that had nothing to do with childbirth. The compound had no real doctors (no doctor was stupid enough to willingly work for Vlad), so they often kidnapped doctors during raids, locking them in the dungeon until they were needed. The doctor had a look of pure, raw, terror on his face, and righteously so; for most people, one wrong move and they would likely become a loose bag of flesh impaled on a wooden stalagmite (there’s a reason why Vlad is called ‘the Impaler’). However, there also seemed to be a glimmer of hope in his eyes, as if performing a successful delivery might finally earn him his freedom. Unfortunately for him, he didn’t know that, like all other captured doctors before him, his fate as a pool of organs had been determined the moment he stepped foot into the compound. It was a guarantee that no soul who didn’t belong to their organization would ever be able to escape.

	Hours passed. The heist party had already left, leaving their lair eerily quiet. It was dark now, and the nursery was only lit by small lanterns. For some unknown reason Vlad had decided to stay behind. Lilith silently hoped that he might actually care about his new grandchildren, although that idea seemed pretty far-fetched. Maybe he stayed just so he could kill her on the spot if all three turned out to be girls. The doctor, sweating more profusely than Lilith, sat by her side, treating her with utmost respect, probably still believing that he had a shot at freedom. The pain was slowly picking up. There were no painkillers in the compound, because Vlad strictly believed that pain tolerance was a skill that could and should be trained. She hadn’t been worried about the pain, since from what she’d read, later births should be less painful than her first one, but this one had three times the amount of babies. But now, it was becoming more and more unbearable, and she was really craving some morphine or epidurals. She felt something resembling a contraction. It would all be over soon.

*

	The process went quite smoothly, and Lilith was soon left with three healthy baby boys in her arms. The doctor hadn’t really needed to do anything, much to his ecstasy, but was promptly dragged out of the room and disposed of by her father after he determined his services were no longer needed. Vlad was beaming with joy: three possible heirs! What greater gift could she have given him?

	In practice, there were probably only two possible heirs. Two of the boys were 7 pounds at birth, who would both become big strong crime lords in their own right (it took quite a bit of explaining for Vlad to understand that 7 pounds was indeed quite a bit above the average weight for triplets). Of course, she named them ‘Basil’ and ‘Thyme’, very big-strong-crime-lord-esque names, much to her father’s annoyance. She didn’t, however, have a name planned out for the third one.

The third one was quite scrawny, only 4 pounds. Success in the compound was much more about size than smarts: Vlad, of course, had the biggest physicality of any man Lilith had ever seen, and many of his secretaries and generals were also quite large in size. Although Vlad was smart when it came to planning heists, he was quite delusional when it came to diplomacy. Frankly, one of the major reasons their compound hadn’t been bombed to oblivion was the insignificance of what they actually stole. A well-functioning kingdom could recoup its losses from a raid in just a matter of days.

	“This one’s quite small isn’t he? Do you reckon he’ll ever be enough to take over this compound?” her father prodded, with a look of disgust.

	“Father, just because he’s small now doesn’t mean that he won’t ever be useful in the future,” Lilith knew her words were futile, both in changing Vlad’s mind and even her own, but deep inside, she thought perhaps saying them out loud would make herself believe them more. Could she really bear raising a son to be useless?

	“No…” Vlad somehow looked more disgusted. “If he was born scrawny, he’ll always be scrawny! I was a full 12 pounds when I was born, and look at me now! We could honestly just throw him into the snake pit now, and that probably wouldn’t make any difference to us a couple of years from now. Just look at him. He’ll never be a hero.”

	Vlad sauntered off into another room, leaving Lilith alone with her three newborns. His ranting had given her an idea. The perfect, ironic name for this child to piss her father off: ‘Hero.’

	And in that little mind, a thought, the first of many millions to come, emerged. The small child had heard the conversation; he didn’t recognize the words, but he did recognize the disdain in Vlad’s voice. The thought wasn’t quite words, for no newborn understands language, but more of a raw emotion, and, translated best to text, it read something like: 

Grandfather, I will stop at no ends to prove you wrong.

	This emotion would soon be drowned out and buried beneath the noise of childhood. But it would always linger. And one day, when the time was right, it would strike.
