Prologue Chapter 2 - Unwavering Resolve
	
Charles stood outside his grand suite on the Palace’s fifth floor, watching the peaceful afternoon courtyard from his balcony. To most, he was living the life: strong, charming, wealthy, stable, best friends with the Prince. At the age of just 27, he was already one of the King’s most trusted advisors, and already had 2 sons and 2 daughters, all cute and perfectly healthy. He was also the Palace’s second-best swordsman, despite being raised like most royal babies were: incredibly spoiled. The only thing people said was missing from his life was his beautiful wife, who tragically ‘died’ after giving birth to his youngest son. Charles, however, quickly got over his ‘mourning’ phase and returned to his duties as usual, contributing even more to his already positive public image.

Deep down, however, he was quite insecure. Not about his appearance or his skills, but rather his relationship with his so-called ‘best friend’. It was readily apparent that Prince Arthur was ambitious ever since he was two years old, when he refused to let go of his father’s crown no matter how much the Royal Guards tried to pry it away from him. After all, Charles was only the second-best swordsman in the Palace; the title for ‘best swordsman’ went to the Prince. 

Charles was lucky that Arthur was his best friend, otherwise he would already be dead 10 times over. He tried to remember all those years ago when he’d thought Arthur was just a funny prince who liked to make up stories, but all he could remember was the day when his illusions were shattered.

“Even the mighty Overseer will bow down to me, and say, ‘My great King, your powers are truly unmatched!’” Arthur had boasted, laughing out loud. They were only 14 at the time, but Charles would remember that laugh for the rest of his life.

“Of course! Then, you’re going to take the Overseer’s soul, and challenge Creation yourself?” Charles questioned in an extremely sarcastic tone, laughing along. Arthur’s face suddenly became serious.

“Isn’t that the obvious next step?”

Charles paused, his smile fading. Arthur often threw around far-fetched ideas of defeating insanely powerful foes, famous warriors and even sometimes demigods, but he hadn’t yet mentioned trying to fight Creation. Was his best friend completely delusional? “You can’t seriously believe you could challenge the Overseer, let alone Creation, and come out on top…?” he asked, unsure of what to expect.

“If that’s what it takes to become the most powerful man in this world, I won’t stop until both of them are defeated. All living beings should hail ME as their god!”

“But you aren’t magical. You wouldn’t even stand a chance against Merlin!” Merlin was the King’s Royal Wizard, whose powers were significant but certainly no match for the Overseer, who could probably squash all three of them in mere seconds.

“Then I’ll learn magic! Your ignorance amuses me sometimes, Charles.”

Charles stopped to think. He sat there for at least a few seconds of silence, and then inquired, “I thought magic was genetic? No Medieval King in history has shown signs of magic, and I don’t think any of your mother’s ancestors were magical either.” He was unsure if that was the right answer.

Arthur was scowling now. He opened and closed his mouth several times, as if Charles’s statement had at least partially shattered his reality. “Then I’ll harness the power of the soul. Just because I can’t learn magic doesn’t mean I can’t absorb it from others. I’ll have the souls of a whole kingdom at my disposal, and after each victory, I’ll take the souls of my enemies, the more powerful, the better! And after Creation falls, I will sit on my godly throne at the peak of Tellura, and anyone who dares question my authority will be reduced to a rotting corpse!” he was grinning again. Charles froze. Soul magic had been taboo across Tellura since the beginning of history, as it was used during the Overlord’s first rise to power.

Charles thought of asking whether Arthur would go as far as to kill his best friend to achieve world dominance, but he thought perhaps the answer was too bleak for him to handle, and it definitely wasn’t a good idea to implant that idea into Arthur’s brain.

“And the best thing is, I’ll have someone by my side on that whole journey.” Arthur beamed. Charles paused momentarily in shock. He had forgotten that they were still best friends, at least for now.

“I think it’s getting late… I better go to sleep now. I like that plan though, and I’m glad I can be a part of it. See you tomorrow,” Charles said hastily before leaving. His mind raced around in his skull as he had several revelations simultaneously.

It was true that they had been best friends since birth, but could he really trust a delusional maniac? And even if he could, would he be forced to torture and kill to help a delusional maniac attempt to take over the world? A small part of him still hoped Arthur was joking, even though he clearly hadn’t been. The signs of Arthur’s brutal plan had also become increasingly obvious: Arthur was already bossing around the Royal Guard, devising strategies to win wars against other kingdoms, and plotting ways to depose officials (mostly magic-users) that he disliked, all of which he openly shared with Charles.

When Charles was 17, he began to notice that the Palace was often at a shortage of priests and healers. He once asked Merlin about the phenomenon, but Merlin told him that he already knew the reason. 3 years later, Merlin was fired from his position as Royal Wizard. This time, Charles knew exactly what happened; Arthur had literally shown him the plan the day before. 

3 more years later, Charles read in the Chronicle of the Crown that Merlin had died mysteriously, alone in his home. Apparently, unemployment was not enough of a punishment for Arthur’s satisfaction. Charles was beginning to fear that Arthur’s plan to achieve limitless power was perhaps possible.

Then, Charles met the love of his life, Asha, during a short diplomatic visit to another kingdom. They spent the entirety of Charles’s 3-day trip planning the rest of their lives together. They were a perfect couple, but there was one major problem: she was magical. And she wasn’t just some random magician. She was the Avatar.

The Avatars were a long line of powerful mages whose abilities traced back to the legendary warrioress Ava, hence the name. She believed that the Overseer alone was not enough to protect the world, and created the position as both an additional guardian for Tellura and a check on the Overseer's power. After her death, she passed the title to her most powerful apprentice, and the tradition had continued since. In reality, most Avatars weren't powerful enough to defeat an Overseer, but an additional guardian was always welcome.

Charles wanted to bring Asha back to the Palace with him, but he knew publicly marrying a magic-user with Arthur X as the reigning king was a certain death sentence for both of them. Instead, they plotted to create a fake identity for her. That worked well for a few years, but people slowly began to notice. Many in the Royal Court were suspicious of Asha’s mysterious background, and people began questioning how she always disappeared at the same time the Avatar resurfaced. As time went on, they gave birth to twins, Henry and Ellie, and another daughter, Kate. Eventually, they decided that the way they were forced to hide things wasn’t working anymore, so Charles staged a fake death for her after Adrien, their youngest son, was born, and she returned to the duties of the Avatar.

This arrangement was completely fine. Arthur didn’t suspect a thing, and they would still see each other often, as Asha would always ‘coincidentally’ be at all of Charles’s diplomatic missions. The only main problem was that their kids would grow up without their mother by their side. Charles wasn’t even sure if he could tell them who she really was until they were old enough to comprehend why.

On his balcony, he sighed, still thinking about his ‘perfect’ life. By now, the sun had set, and the courtyard was mostly empty, except for a few people playing cards by the fire. He spent much of his free time on this balcony, daydreaming about the past and the future; in fact, it was pretty much all he did besides advise the King and watch his children. People would often ask him why he was always on his balcony. He often responded with, “Because there is a lot to think about.” He didn’t mention that the thinking often involved silent mental panic about the prince’s ideology. Charles took in another deep breath. Maybe he was worrying too much. But then again, maybe his capacity to worry was his greatest gift.

*

	Charles had never imagined, in all his worries or nightmares, that this many things could possibly go wrong in one day. Yesterday, the world was at peace. Today, Charles was locked in a dungeon, set to be executed the next day, the fates of his children were unknown, and his kingdom was now at war. To be fair, Charles was very lucky that it had taken this long for Arthur to find out about his secret, but he could never expect this much bad luck to be dumped on him in 12 hours.

	A lot had happened in the last 13 years—all four of his children had developed some sort of elemental powers, probably something he should have expected given their mother’s identity—but Charles’s life didn’t seem very different overall. He and his servants had expertly hidden frozen doorknobs, burnt furniture, and random cracks in the floor for many years. 

Things may have not changed for Charles, but they certainly did for the Medieval citizens. Suddenly, they found themselves bearing the weight of the newly crowned King Arthur X’s expensive military expeditions through mind-bogglingly high tax rates. Although the Medieval Kingdom had indeed significantly grown in size in Arthur’s 9 years of rule, through his visits with local leaders, Charles had seen the extent of the damage done to the lower classes. It had also become formal policy that criticizing the King’s ideas was a major crime, something the previous king had allowed freely during his reign. Obviously, the use of magic was declared as heresy, and only a couple priests and healers were allowed to maintain their practice; all others were put to death (Charles shuddered to think of what happened to the souls of the punished). The good thing was that Arthur hadn’t put them through any major wars yet (although he did put them through dozens and dozens of minor ones), and Charles’s family was safe. He knew this situation couldn’t last indefinitely, but he hadn’t yet truly understood the consequences.

This morning, at about 9 AM, Charles was notified by his servants that Adrien, his youngest son, now 14 and almost as tall as Charles, had refused to wake up, complaining about a headache, and indeed had a low fever. They also said he was sneezing a lot. Charles wasn’t worried; Adrien often got random colds that went away after a few days. During breakfast, he did set the table on fire with a sneeze, but Charles brushed it off as insignificant.

At 11 AM, the Palace received a sudden tornado warning, which was extremely unexpected as it was the start of winter. Everyone was instructed to go into the basement to wait out the storm in case of disaster (there was no longer anyone capable of maintaining the magical anti-storm roof). A rudimentary lunch was quickly rationed out, since the kitchens were all upstairs. Charles kept Adrien, who kept sneezing, close to him as everyone huddled around in the Palace’s storage rooms. 

As he sat there with nothing to really pass the time, Charles realized that the situation might actually be more precarious than he imagined; any outburst of flames would reveal their long kept secret. In fact, he’d never even had to deal with this sort of situation: When Charles suspected one of his kids might lose control of their powers, he just told them to stay in their room. Tornadoes were also really rare this close to the ocean and Charles’s private basement was currently being renovated. He decided to take Adrien to an old storage room, for a bit more privacy in case something went awry. 

In the storage room, not a single light source could be found, since all of the glass lamps had been stowed away in fear of the tornado. Charles realized that this probably wasn’t the best place to be, so he tried finding his way back to the door, but since he really couldn’t see anything clearly at all, he ended up knocking over a giant shelf of cheese. The impact was deafening, and soon, the room was clouded with a fine dust that had probably been settled on the floor for decades, getting all over his eyes and nose, further hindering his sight.

	Charles heard the door open. From his dusty eyesight, three silhouettes emerged: two Royal Guards, and Arthur himself. He breathed a short sigh of relief; at least he wouldn’t be trapped in the basement forever. However, the dust was still really irritating, and as he attempted to wipe it out of his eyes, he felt a slight tingling sensation in his nose. Then, he realized something terrible.

	As he finally regained his ability to see clearly, he was met with the breathtaking scene of Adrien sneezing loudly, followed by the King’s coat and mustache on fire.

*

By 2 PM, Charles had been thrown into a solitary dungeon cell, for multiple crimes committed against the King, including assault of enforcement officers, attempted assassination of the King, and illegal harboring of magic. Immediately after the sneeze, Charles had drawn his sword and thrown himself at the extremely surprised Royal Guards, subduing them just long enough to let Adrien get away from the commotion and hopefully notify Ellie. The Royal Guards were instructed to beat the heavens out of him, but since he was quite a bit more popular than the King himself (and he had deliberately not hurt any of them during his escape tactic), they decided to spare him from that ordeal. 

Charles and Asha had spent a great deal of time planning a contingency in case he had to escape the Palace, but since Asha moved around so much, reaching her in case of emergency would be difficult. He had gone over several escape plans with Ellie, who he saw as the most composed of his children, but most of them required a bit more of a heads up. He was afraid that Arthur could get to them before any of them could know what was going on. Hopefully, they can fight their way out of any situation they get in, he thought, although they had never really trained at all.

There were no clocks in the dungeon, so Charles quickly lost track of time. In what felt like a few hours after he was thrown into the dungeon, he saw a bunch of guards receiving treatment for burns, frostbite, and heavy concussions through a crack in the dungeon door, and the King yelling at them for not doing their job properly. Charles felt relieved; at least his children were probably no longer in immediate danger. He supposed that it was the result of the Palace’s stunning lack of competent warriors (most of them were stationed in the newly claimed outskirts of the kingdom, as Arthur still seemed to think he could handle any threat on his own). The King swiftly turned around and headed towards his cell.

“Charles, old friend. It appears you’ve been hiding something from me for quite a while… but your secret is out now.” the King said gravely. 

Charles said nothing, because in all reality, he didn’t have anything to say. Denying the matter would be useless; clearly Arthur wouldn’t believe anything he said. It was also hard to make out facial features in the dim lighting, so Charles had no idea whether Arthur was frowning or simply expressionless. 

“I mean, did you really think you could hide your children’s magic forever? You really didn’t have to lie to me for all these years. You could have told me when you found out, and I would have raised them right,” Arthur remarked. Charles grimaced at the thought of Arthur raising his children. What would he do to them? Arthur’s two princes both had clear problems: one was extremely arrogant and spoiled, believing he and his father were invincible tyrants, while the other constantly hid away from everything notable, rarely saying much about anything, basically invisible to the rest of the Palace.

“Do whatever you want to me. But lay a hand on any of them, and I have a few friends who might want to speak with you.” This was only half-true. He had no reliable way of contacting Asha unless their children could get to her, and despite Arthur’s diplomatic shortcomings, he wasn’t sure if any neighboring kingdom would support a full-scale rebellion.

“That’s funny. After all these years, you still think you can stop me? I’ve received word from my spies that your precious little sons and daughters are heading up north, hoping the Tsar will grant them asylum.” Charles felt a slight relief. Ellie was smart: She knew which rulers would be most friendly to Medieval refugees that may or may not also be bringing international trouble. “Although, I’m not sure if you should be feeling any relief. Traveling between kingdoms these days is inherently dangerous, but traveling north at the start of winter? With my armies hunting them down? Trust me, they won’t be out there for long. I’ll make good use of their souls.” He bent down to get a closer look of Charles’s eyes.

“And even if they do make it, I know you think Peter will help them, but I wouldn’t be so confident if I were you,” the King continued, “To do so would mean certain war between kingdoms.” Even through the darkness, Charles could see the glimmer of malice in Arthur’s eyes. “I will see you tomorrow before your execution. For now, remember that YOU are the one responsible for any war that plagues this kingdom or its inhabitants,” Arthur stated curtly before leaving.

Charles sat alone for a few more hours. He knew that this day would ultimately come, but he didn’t think it would be this depressing. Not only had he lost his children and probably his life today, he had also lost his best friend. Arthur was indeed psychopathic, but nonetheless they had been best friends for forty years, and in forty seconds it was wiped clean. He felt a tear in his eye. He had long gotten over his fear of death, but to think that he would die alone, far away from those he loved, without any knowledge about their whereabouts…

His mind began filling with radical ideas he never would’ve thought of yesterday. There was no question that many of Arthur’s soldiers and even advisors did not like his stance on many issues. Even the Royal Guard often secretly opposed Arthur's policies. Charles just needed to trigger their dissent. Perhaps, if he could get out of the dungeon and rally up some distraction or resistance he’d be able to escape by morning and coordinate some form of plan somewhere safe. He tugged on the bars, but they were way too strong for any ordinary person to break. He just needed one clean window of opportunity.

Then, he heard the dungeon door creak. A dark silhouette walked up to Charles’s cell. Perhaps it was already morning, and an executioner was about to publicly take his life? Or maybe it was just a Royal Guard bringing him some water? 

The silhouette bent down, examining the bars and the lock, and must have seen the terror in his eyes. The figure quickly said, “Don’t worry, I’m here to break you out. Just please don’t tell anyone.” Charles was confused. The figure wasn’t holding any key or tool. Who in the Palace could break these steel bars with their bare hands? The voice was also very familiar, but Charles couldn’t exactly pinpoint who it was. It must have been someone in the palace who he didn’t speak to often, or didn’t speak often at all? As the silhouette leaned closer, though, Charles could finally make out the figure’s face.

It was the Prince.
