Prologue Chapter 3 - A World Beyond the Walls

Hero grew up thinking that his grandfather was the strongest person to ever exist in the Universe. After all, he’d never seen his grandfather bow down to anyone. His authority in the compound was never questioned, and of course, that was because he was the mastermind behind all of their heists, which brought them great riches.
	Vlad’s compound looked incredibly impressive from the outside (at least that’s what Hero thought, although he’d never seen any other compounds or even buildings for that matter), consisting of dozens of small houses and workshops, several large fortress structures, and a giant, looming stronghold at the center, surrounding by a series of towering walls. “It is completely and utterly impenetrable,” Vlad would often say to guests at dinners. Despite its size, Hero hadn’t seen most of it, as the children were not meant to wander beyond the main building, and Hero rarely saw the guards who worked the outer walls except during drills or punishment.
From a young age, Hero was taught that organized crime was the best way to earn a living on Tellura, and to do well in a crime organization, you had to be big and tough. Unfortunately for him, he didn’t belong to either of those categories. He was smaller than both Basil and Thyme, so his grandfather didn’t have many expectations for his success.
Perhaps Vlad’s views were valid. After all, he probably wouldn’t see much success if he tried to take part in a heist; he regularly got slammed when he trained against his brothers. However, that didn’t make the constant disapproval from his mother and grandfather more bearable.
In the compound, it was a regular occurrence for those who did badly in training to be punished, and that made sense: In Hero’s eyes, it was a good incentive that Vlad set to improve overall performance. He was often at the receiving end of those punishments, but he told himself that his mother and grandfather’s approval would be worth any amount of physical pain.
	He hoped, craved, for his grandfather to show any emotion to him that wasn’t disappointment, and he tried many methods, from giving small handmade gifts to providing service to just plain compliments, but most of them were met with Vlad spitting in his face. What else could he do? His small brain was out of ideas; he was only seven.
	His mother was not very different. Although Lilith didn’t express disdain towards him, she always had an impassive look. In fact, she always had an impassive look, even when Basil or Thyme took down an adult bandit during training, and Vlad began clapping excessively. He never really knew what his mother was thinking, and he couldn’t tell if she simply didn’t show it, or if she had stopped thinking about things altogether.
Basil and Thyme, of course, were always the same. They were quite large, and consequently, they seemed to love tackling opponents and swinging weapons around wildly, which was very effective due to their strength (but not very strategic). Hero’s only interactions with them either involved him being taunted or used as a punching bag. Fortunately, over the years, Hero had figured out how to abuse their mindless tackling maneuvers and have them clumsily fall over each other.
	The only person who acknowledged the fact that Hero was an actual person was his older sister, Clover. They would often spend evenings eating dinner together (organized dinners were rare, reserved only for special occasions due to ‘efficiency’ reasons), where they used to have long conversations about what the future had in store for them. Nowadays, these dinners were mostly silent, simply because there wasn’t much to say anymore.
Clover was also perhaps the only person who was punished more than Hero, but for different reasons. She obviously hated being confined to the compound, because truly, there wasn’t anything new, ever. For Clover and Hero, everything was essentially  the same every day, except for the fact that they got a tiny bit older and a tiny bit taller. There seemed to only be a few books used for teaching toddlers how to read, and they had quickly outgrown those books. And, because of the constant punishment and lack of novelty, Clover would try to leave the compound every once in a while, get caught by the guards or in a trap, and then get whipped or stung for it. Perhaps Vlad thought that beating her severely enough would discourage her from ever trying such an escape again, although it clearly wasn’t working.
Approval soon became his main motivator for waking up the next morning. He trained as much as possible, ate more, and tried exercises recommended in the compound’s few books about health, yet nothing much changed. It was impossible for him to physically overpower his brothers or sister, and as things became monotonously repetitive, Hero increasingly hoped that something would finally change.
*
When Clover was 17, she went on her first heist (which she was very much looking forward to), and came back with a bunch of treasures, some of them very shiny and very beautiful looking. Of course, they were all tossed into Vlad’s vault, since everything in the compound was communal. Clover, however, had secretly brought something else back as well. 
“You know how there’s nothing left in this stupid compound for us to read? Well, I stole this interesting book called Everything We Know About the Impaler’s Compound written by some guy named Albus. Apparently he’s the grand scholar? It’s not very long, but it should last us at least tonight. Also, it’s only two years old, so it should be pretty accurate?” Clover grinned. 
“You might be even smarter than Grandfather for this one,” Hero grinned right back.
“Don’t say that! Those words would get you killed if he were behind us!” they both giggled. They were even more excited than when they found out Clover would get to participate in a heist.The book’s spine was severely damaged, although the cover and pages still looked quite new, and someone had clearly taken great care in attempting to stitch it back together. The first page contained a large stamp indicating that the book belonged to a ‘LIBRARY.’ There was also a small note inscribed in elegantly bad handwriting that read: “Minerva, I understand that the Impaler’s recent movements might concern the people of the Commonwealth. Unfortunately, there is nothing I can do about the Overseer’s cowardice (it seems as if he might turn to dust any minute now, though), although this topic has been quite incredibly interesting for research! Thank you for bringing it to my attention, and I wish your people the best of luck. This book is dedicated to you. Good wishes, Albus.” 
Below it was some much better handwriting that read: “Readers, this is my last copy of this book. I do not know where the other nine have disappeared to, but hopefully it means everybody has been enjoying it! If you want to borrow this book, please take care of it and bring it back. Evidently, it holds a special place in my heart. Thank you, Minerva.” Clover grimaced after reading the last sentence.
“Well, there are probably still nine others lying around that village. Best not to worry about it, right?” Clover eyed Hero, who was already starting to feel bad for this Minerva. “Hey, the next time I go on a heist, I’ll bring the book back to the same library to make sure it gets back to the owner, alright? In exchange, you should stop pouting.”
Hero made a face, before agreeing. “What is a ‘LIBRARY’ anyway? And who is the Overseer?” he asked.
“No idea. The library must have something to do with buying books? The building I found this in was full of books. I only grabbed one book since this one looked the most interesting and wouldn’t be too suspicious. I’ve never heard of an Overseer either. I guess it isn’t important? We should probably get on with reading, so we won’t be up the whole night,” Clover replied.
	The next page had a picture of an old man wearing a funny hat, with silvery white hair and a beard, both of which flowed down past his shoulders and out of the frame, which must have been Albus. His eyes gleamed with the sense that he had thought of something that the readers hadn’t. “You know, I see that in your eyes sometimes too, Hero,” commented Clover. Hero, however, saw almost no resemblance between himself and the picture, perhaps because Albus looked truly content in the frame, while Hero had never felt that emotion before.
Hero had always wondered what the outside world thought of them. He’d always imagined that Vlad was an extremely well-respected, powerful leader, so much so that other rulers didn’t dare try and attack the compound, and that he had been extremely lucky to be born here at all. What would the book reveal? They flipped to the first page…
*
	Hero did not sleep that night. Nor the next. And that wasn’t because the book took a long time to read. It was because it took a long time to get the book’s images out of his brain.
He had always believed his grandfather was taking from those who could afford to lose something. Excess wealth. Hoarded riches. That belief clung stubbornly to him even now. He told himself the book exaggerated, that scholars always dramatized suffering to make a point. But Albus didn’t write like someone trying to persuade.
“For those unlucky enough to be raided,” one passage read, “recovery is rare. I have walked these roads myself. I have seen families who once lived modestly but well reduced to sleeping beside their own ruins. There is no help waiting for them. Most do not last the winter.”
Hero had reread the lines multiple times, hoping repetition would dull their weight. It didn’t. He could almost hear the author’s voice, and wondered if Albus was equally as traumatized when he had first seen the destruction described.
Hero’s thoughts seemed to no longer be in his conscious control. He imagined Clover kneeling in the dust. Imagined his grandfather’s hands moving with the same casual patience described in the book. Imagined himself begging, promising anything, and being ignored. The image made his stomach twist violently. He tried to tell himself he was being ridiculous, that he was letting words on a page get to him, but the pictures returned anyway, uninvited and relentless. What was it all for? A vault full of gold? A fortress no one could breach? Even to him, that answer felt thin. His mind stumbled across another word. Entertainment?
At first, he and Clover tried to laugh it off. They told each other the author must be senile, that outsiders always misunderstood the compound, that fear made people exaggerate. Clover said it first. She said it firmly. But she didn’t meet his eyes when she did, and after that she spoke less and less. When Hero tried to point out something that didn’t make sense, she only nodded and turned the page.
Eventually, they stopped talking altogether. Not because they agreed, but because every argument sounded like something they wanted to believe rather than something they actually did.
	But one passage disturbed Hero more than the rest. Because it was about him. “Several accounts describe how the Impaler raises his children,” Albus wrote. “I hesitate to call it teaching. It is conditioning. From birth, they are taught that cruelty is virtue, that obedience is safety, and that affection is a weakness to be exploited. I say this publicly, not to condemn the children, but to mourn what they are denied.”
	Hero read it once. Then again. The book listed lessons he recognized instantly: that stealing was moral, that pain made you better, that fear was love in another form. It described his childhood so precisely that it felt invasive, as though someone had been watching him from the shadows and writing everything down.
  	By then Clover had gone very still beside him. Her jaw was tight, her hands clenched around the book’s leather covers. She didn’t say it was wrong. She didn’t say it was exaggerated. She just stared at the page, unmoving, as if any reaction at all might shatter something she was barely holding together. Hero wanted to tear the page out. He wanted to burn the book. He wanted to forget he had ever learned how to read. And yet, part of him still clung to hope. To doubt. Surely this couldn’t be the whole truth. Surely Vlad was doing this to protect them all from something bad. Surely, somewhere, there was a greater evil.
	A part of him still wanted to remove all parts of the book from his memory. But a terrible question lingered with him. Who was keeping Vlad in check? Why hadn’t his terrible, terrible grandfather conquered the whole world by now?
*
	Just a week after Hero’s traumatic reading experience, the compound was awoken loudly by the church bell (obviously stolen from a Medieval church, insanely out of place compared to everything else). Three strikes of the bell meant everyone was to meet at the compound’s gate, which was quite unusual, since these meetings usually signaled the arrival of an important guest, and those events were announced weeks in advance. Hero threw on some clothes and made his way outside. In the hallway, he asked Basil and Thyme, “Do either of you know what’s happening?”
	“They’re probably gathering everyone so they can laugh at your horrible performance at yesterday’s training,” snorted Basil. Thyme began his extremely ear-damaging laugh-cackle that sounded like a wild boar choking on an animal carcass.
	“Funny. I remember someone needing three people to pull him out of a dessert yesterday.” Hero replied bluntly. Basil and Thyme quickly shut up.
	Hero saw Clover at the gate and quickly caught up to her, asking her the same question, which felt slightly awkward since they hadn’t really spoken since reading the book.  “I don’t know,” she replied, “but it probably has something to do with him.” She pointed upwards at the sky, where everyone seemed to be staring.
	Hero was dumbfounded. There was a man in the sky. Just floating. Effortlessly. He was too far for Hero to make out any facial features, but Hero could make out black, perhaps slightly graying hair (it also could have been the sun’s reflection), a maroon cape billowing in the desert wind, and a violently red star-shaped aura that seemed to glow even in the morning sun. Who was this person?
	Just as Hero began making the connection, Vlad stated it blatantly. “OVERSEER!”
“Impaler!” the figure replied brightly and quite unseriously.
He drifted down from the sky and settled atop the outer wall. Guards scattered from the battlements. For the first time in Hero’s life, Vlad was not the most commanding presence in view.
“I take it you’re here to negotiate. Unfortunately, your loyalty isn’t worth more money than I’m already giving,” Vlad called, arms spread slightly, a predator’s grin on his face.
The Overseer glanced around, smiling radiantly. “Negotiate? Oh no. Negotiations imply you have something I want. I’m here because you’ve been making an awful mess, and I decided that someone ought to clean up. Honestly, were you never taught not to pee on your neighbor’s front lawn?”
Vlad laughed, low and dangerous. “The last Overseer never dared come here. He knew better than to mess with me. You clearly aren’t very intelligent… Ralph, was it?”
“It’s Rolph. You should really learn to get names right, you know; you’re quite infamous for hilariously botching them. I mean—at least try to be respectable. Oh, and William?” Rolph waved a hand. “Yes. He had a remarkable talent for staying very very far away from problems.” He was still smiling. “A talent that… didn’t serve him particularly well in the end.”
Vlad’s grin faltered for half a second. “Watch your tongue. Your title doesn’t scare me the way it scares others.”
Rolph leaned forward slightly. “And you wear stolen crowns. Funny how that works.”
Vlad’s eyes hardened. “You float. You bluff. You prattle. You throw around senselessly weak magic in hopes of frightening your enemies. But I’ve seen Overseers bleed before.”
Rolph’s smile widened. “Have you? How charming. And yet—you’re still standing here, instead of ordering your men to skin me alive. Curious.”
Vlad snarled. “That’s enough. It is time to teach you a lesson” He raised his hand. “BALLISTAS!”
The mechanisms clapped. Steel bolts whistled through the air. Rolph seemed even more amused. With a soft snap, the bolts vanished in a blinding flash as a thunderous shockwave tore across the compound. Sand spilled everywhere, as the metal bolts clattered uselessly to the ground moments later.
Rolph remained standing, unfazed. “You really should diversify your openings. It’s honestly quite boring. Don’t you want your enemies to be entertained?”
For the first time, Vlad didn’t laugh. He said something that Hero didn’t quite catch, since Hero’s thoughts were multiplying like rabbits. The floating. The aura. The impossible force. Reality itself had cracked. The forbidden word clawed its way into his mind:
MAGIC
“Reload! Fire again!” Vlad screamed, slightly dazed. But Rolph was already gone. He flew down from the wall like a shooting star, slamming into the sandy floor and sending Vlad and several guards flying. A dozen guards rushed forward with spears.
Rolph glanced at them. “Oh, do try. It makes the job more fun.” A sphere of energy erupted outward, hurling bodies into the sandstone walls. Hero stared.
His grandfather, seven feet of muscle, lay sprawled on the ground, squirming, while the Overseer, of impressive but not abnormal size, stood calmly amid the wreckage. Rolph seized Vlad by the throat and hauled him up, pressing him into the crumbling wall.
Vlad snarled, spitting blood. “You think… this changes anything? I’ll flay you alive. I’ll hang your head on a stick over my gates—”
Rolph chuckled flippantly. “Ah. There it is. I was wondering when the poetry about impaling would start. I really have to say, perhaps the rhyme needs a bit of workshopping?”
He tightened his grip just enough to cut off the words, tone suddenly shifting to something much more serious. “Listen carefully. You’re not special. You’re not clever. You’re not even a good father. You’re just good at making a big mess like a giant baby, and now, it’s time for you to grow up.”
Vlad gasped, clawing at Rolph’s wrist, but the nails weren’t breaking skin.
“William hid in the Citadel, counting his bribes,” Rolph continued listlessly. “I won’t. And I strongly recommend you don’t make the same mistake he did—believing that your position of power is indefinite and gifted by Creation."
Vlad’s eyes bulged, just slightly. Was he realizing something, or was it just the choking?
“Overseer Rolph Dundgren,” Rolph went on. “Memorize it. These lands are no longer your playground. And it isn’t in your best interest to defy this order, at least if you want to hold on to your soul.”
Vlad twitched and gestured weakly toward his archers. Rolph noticed immediately. “Ah. Still hopeful. I would admire that trait if it weren’t a product of your stupidity.” 
He pivoted and hurled Vlad’s hulking body into the archer line, which promptly scattered in panic. No one moved after that. 
Rolph approached Vlad one final time as the crowd parted instinctively. He extended a hand, smiling, as if offering a handshake. “I gather you want peace, then?”
Vlad took it, teeth bared. Rolph yanked him up and smashed his face into the ground with a sickening crack. He twisted Vlad’s wrist until it snapped. Vlad screamed in a pitch higher than most girls could reach.
Rolph stepped back, straightened his cape, and sighed. “I’m not sure exactly what lesson you were trying to teach, but I certainly didn’t learn anything new. And, truthfully, that was fun. Maybe too fun. In fact, I almost want to do it all again,” he said thoughtfully. 
His tone shifted back to serious. “So don’t give a reason to. I don’t think you’ll like the outcome.” His gaze swept the crowd… and lingered on Hero a moment longer than necessary.
Then Rolph rose into the air and, on his way out, punched a massive hole clean through the main gate. “Oh, right—of course,” he added, glancing back with a grin. “Thank you for the all the bribes. It’ll be put to good use rebuilding all those towns you destroyed.” His gaze drifted to the rubble and bodies scattered below. “And… dear Creation. It looks like you’ve got a mess to clean up as well.”
With that, he vanished beyond the sandstone towers, leaving behind a compound that suddenly felt very, very small.
Hero didn’t understand what the gaze meant. But he felt seen. And he held onto that thought: that perhaps, somewhere in the outside world, in the world not governed by Vlad, he would be seen.
*
